README.md, before:

# SplitPlayer

SplitPlayer is a high flexible extendable Video Player, that keeps multiple youtube videos in sync.

you can see an productive integration on http://splitplay.tv

example on http://player.splitplay.tv

# Installation and Usage

## Install
```shell
npm install splitplayer --save
```

## Include
on page include

```html
<!-- unpacked -->
<script src="/dist/splitplayer.js"></script>
<!-- minified -->
<script src="/dist/splitplayer.min.js"></script>
```

require as node module

```javascript
var SplitPlayer = require('splitplayer');
```

# Player

## Create

```javascript
var player = new SplitPlayer(options);
```

### Options

```javascript
var options = {
    videos: Array,
    area: String,
    maxVideos: Number,
    volume: Number,
    template: String
};
```

| option        | type           | description  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :---------|
| videos      | Array | list of videos with there settings |
| area      | String      |   DOM droparea for player |
| maxVideos | Number      |   set maximal video amount |
| volume | Number      |    set intial volume |
| template | String      |    wrapper for all videos |

## Videos

### Options
```javascript

var video = {
    hoster: String,
    videoId: String,
    startSeconds: Number,
    isMuted: Boolean
}
```

| option        | type           | description  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-----|
| hoster      | String | set which service this video will use |
| videoId      | String      |   id from youtube or other services |
| startSeconds | Number      |    set seconds, where video will begin, this supports float values like 1.2 |
| isMuted | Boolean      |    false or true do unmute or mute a video initial |

### Examples
```javascript
var video = {
    hoster: 'youtube',
    videoId: 'J4Ltw1ZA9ho',
    startSeconds: 1.2,
    isMuted: false
}
```

#### add list of videos

```javascript

var videoList = [{options}, {options}, {options}];

var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

// add videos
player.addVideos(videoList);
```

#### add one video

```javascript
// create new player
var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

// add video
player.addVideo({object});
```

### Plugins

| Name        | description  | dependencies |
| ------------|:-----| :-----|
| TimeLine      | show played time on a line | TimeManager |
| TimePicker      | this plugin will set your selected time as players current played time | TimeManager |
| TimeDisplay      | show played time on a line | TimeManager |
| Analytics      | if you have google analytcs running, you can include this plugin to track events | Analytics, TimeManager |
| SoundTrack      | this plugin gives the possability to select a soundtrack from added videos | SoundManager |

#### Add Plugin

you can add a plugin directy after you've created the player like this

```javascript
var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

var playerTimeManager = player.addPlugin(SplitPlayerPlugins.TimeManager);
```

`addPlugin()` return created instance of given plugin

#### Extend Plugin

maybe you want to add a new behavior to your playerTime, like an on hover show time

```javascript

var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

var playerTimeManager = player.addPlugin(SplitPlayerPlugins.TimeManager);

playerTimeManager.extend(SplitPlayerPlugins.TimePicker);
```

`extend()` return the created instance of given module

#### playerStates

```javascript
// player state constants
const playerState = {
    unstarted: -1,
    ended: 0,
    playing: 1,
    pause: 2,
    buffering: 3,
    loading: 6
};
```

#### player hooks

hooks are used to connect plugins to player behavior

- onReady
- onPlay
- onPause
- onStop
- onUpdate

### Public Methods

these methods can be used outside

#### play()

play all videos if videos ready

```javascript
player.play();
```

#### pause()

pause all videos

```javascript
player.pause();
```

#### toggle()

Toggle Video from play to pause vice versa

```javascript
player.toggle();
```

#### stop()

stop all videos. The played time will be set to 0 + startSeconds

```javascript
player.stop();
```

#### removeVideo()

remove a video from Player by calling following methods with argument videoId;

```javascript
player.removeVideo(videoId);
```

#### timeTo()

setTime for all Videos

```javascript
player.timeTo(Number); // float number supported
```

#### volumeTo()

set Volume for non muted videos to given number

```javascript
player.volumeTo(Number); // 0-100
```

#### getPlayedTime()

get current played time in seconds

```javascript
return seconds = player.getPlayedTime();
```

#### empty()

you want to delete all videos? use empty()

```javascript
player.empty();
```

#### destroy()

you want to delete the player? use following

```javascript
player.destroy();
```

#### all public methods can be chained

```javascript
player.play().stop().pause().volumeTo(0).timeTo(10).toggle();
```

#### Supported Hoster
- Youtube
- Vimeo (planned)
- Native (planned)

## Dependencies
- DOMtastic > 0.12.x
- underscore > 1.8.x
- node extend > 3.x.x
- YT iframe api


## restriction and licence

you can use this player only for non commercial products and websites.

Commit message:

update docu and add more hooks for analytics

README.md, after:

# SplitPlayer

SplitPlayer is a high flexible extendable Video Player, that keeps multiple youtube videos in sync.
Gives you analytcs access to all hooks

you can see an productive integration on http://splitplay.tv

example on http://player.splitplay.tv

# Installation and Usage

## Install
```shell
npm install splitplayer --save
```

## Include
on page include

```html
<!-- unpacked -->
<script src="/dist/splitplayer.js"></script>
<!-- minified -->
<script src="/dist/splitplayer.min.js"></script>
```

require as node module

```javascript
var SplitPlayer = require('splitplayer');
```

# Player

## Create

```javascript
var player = new SplitPlayer(options);
```

### Options

```javascript
var options = {
    videos: Array,
    area: String,
    maxVideos: Number,
    volume: Number,
    template: String
};
```

| option        | type           | description  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :---------|
| videos      | Array | list of videos with there settings |
| area      | String      |   DOM droparea for player |
| maxVideos | Number      |   set maximal video amount |
| volume | Number      |    set intial volume |
| template | String      |    wrapper for all videos |

## Videos

### Options
```javascript

var video = {
    hoster: String,
    videoId: String,
    startSeconds: Number,
    isMuted: Boolean
}
```

| option        | type           | description  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-----|
| hoster      | String | set which service this video will use |
| videoId      | String      |   id from youtube or other services |
| startSeconds | Number      |    set seconds, where video will begin, this supports float values like 1.2 |
| isMuted | Boolean      |    false or true do unmute or mute a video initial |

### Examples
```javascript
var video = {
    hoster: 'youtube',
    videoId: 'J4Ltw1ZA9ho',
    startSeconds: 1.2,
    isMuted: false
}
```

#### add list of videos

```javascript

var videoList = [{options}, {options}, {options}];

var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

// add videos
player.addVideos(videoList);
```

#### add one video

```javascript
// create new player
var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

// add video
player.addVideo({object});
```

### Plugins

| Name        | description  | dependencies |
| ------------|:-----| :-----|
| TimeLine      | show played time on a line | TimeManager |
| TimePicker      | this plugin will set your selected time as players current played time | TimeManager |
| TimeDisplay      | show played time on a line | TimeManager |
| Analytics      | if you have google analytcs running, you can include this plugin to track events | Analytics, TimeManager |
| SoundTrack      | this plugin gives the possability to select a soundtrack from added videos | SoundManager |

#### Add Plugin

you can add a plugin directy after you've created the player like this

```javascript
var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

var playerTimeManager = player.addPlugin(SplitPlayerPlugins.TimeManager);
```

`addPlugin()` return created instance of given plugin

#### Extend Plugin

maybe you want to add a new behavior to your playerTime, like an on hover show time

```javascript

var player = new SplitPlayer(options);

var playerTimeManager = player.addPlugin(SplitPlayerPlugins.TimeManager);

playerTimeManager.extend(SplitPlayerPlugins.TimePicker);
```

`extend()` return the created instance of given module

#### playerStates

```javascript
// player state constants
const playerState = {
    unstarted: -1,
    ended: 0,
    playing: 1,
    pause: 2,
    buffering: 3,
    loading: 6
};
```

#### player hooks

hooks are used to connect plugins to player behavior

- onReady
- onPlay
- onPause
- onStop
- onUpdate
- onTimeTo
- onMute
- onVolumeChange

### Public Methods

these methods can be used outside

#### play()

play all videos if videos ready

```javascript
player.play();
```

#### pause()

pause all videos

```javascript
player.pause();
```

#### toggle()

Toggle Video from play to pause vice versa

```javascript
player.toggle();
```

#### stop()

stop all videos. The played time will be set to 0 + startSeconds

```javascript
player.stop();
```

#### removeVideo()

remove a video from Player by calling following methods with argument videoId;

```javascript
player.removeVideo(videoId);
```

#### timeTo()

setTime for all Videos

```javascript
player.timeTo(Number); // float number supported
```

#### volumeTo()

set Volume for non muted videos to given number

```javascript
player.volumeTo(Number); // 0-100
```

#### getPlayedTime()

get current played time in seconds

```javascript
return seconds = player.getPlayedTime();
```

#### empty()

you want to delete all videos? use empty()

```javascript
player.empty();
```

#### destroy()

you want to delete the player? use following

```javascript
player.destroy();
```

#### all public methods can be chained

```javascript
player.play().stop().pause().volumeTo(0).timeTo(10).toggle();
```

#### Supported Hoster
- Youtube
- Vimeo (planned)
- Native (planned)

## Dependencies
- DOMtastic > 0.12.x
- underscore > 1.8.x
- node extend > 3.x.x
- YT iframe api


## restriction and licence

you can use this player only for non commercial products and websites.
